How many of us, just show of hands,
have built web applications
prior to Angular?
So even 1.x counts, but I'm looking for
anybody who's built web applications
prior to three years ago.
So like five, six, seven years ago.
Just quick show of hands, Zoom,
if you've done it, don't be shy.
So if you haven't,
consider yourself lucky.
This is one of those-
>> There's a lot of people putting their
hands up in the chat.
We've got five or six-
>> Tons, tons.
>> And then two hands up in Zoom, yet now
there's still more coming in in the chat.
>> If you haven't, and
almost I feel bad if I'm like,
if you've never done anything
prior to this, raise your hand and
everybody would just be like,
I hate you so much.
This is kind of one of these like,
when I was your age,
I would walk to school in the snow, and
obviously then we're from Minnesota.
And uphill and dirt for lunch,
whatever is that in
the spectrum of maturity.
JavaScript is really a fairly
immature ecosystem that it
always kind of just blows me
away when I start going through
some of the classic programming
books that were written
in like the 80s and the 90s,
and I think you should.
That the things that front end
developers are thinking about and
they spend all their
time like arguing about.
These ideas have been around for
years and years and years and years.
Even Mark I remember one time he talking
about maybe unidirectional data flow or
something and he was telling me
that years ago he had essentially
written something that
solved that problem.
Observables RGS,
that is really a composition of multiple,
just really two patterns
that are put together.
And the reason why I bring
this up is that we have
the cyclical kind of
patterns in our developer
experience to where is
JavaScript developers
that when we want to put
something together is
that it typically looks
something like this.
Where, it's like npm, TypeScript,
JavaScript, Gulp, Grunt,
I mean, I laugh at these because a lot
of these are not even around anymore.
But the fact that even if you remember the
pad left debacle to where somebody's like,
you know what, I'm taking this package
down and then blew everything up.
Is that when we're building front
end applications, it is certainly,
certainly getting better but
JavaScript fatigue is real.
And there are times where
even with a major framework
release where things just
kind of start to fall apart.
And how do you put things together?
How do you compile?
Are you using Babel?
Are you using Webpack?
What kind of a module
system are you using?
So if you're using front end and
you're using ES6 module syntax, but then
you move over into node using express,
maybe you're using common module syntax.
And I can say just being totally open
before everybody, there has been
some afternoons where this is how I feel.
Some package changed and
something happened and
I cannot get it to work and
what do you do?
So prior to, in my opinion,
I believe that Angular, and
I'm gonna put this in
writing if somebody wants.
I think Angular got really
good around Angular 4.x.
Up until that point, this was me as
an Angular developer, a lot of times.
I think I had to even come up and
redo an entire Angular workshop
because they changed something.
And one of the reasons why I think it got
as good as it did is because of this tool.
The Angular CLI allowed
us to take a lot of these
quirky nasty bits and streamlined them so
we did not have to think
about them anymore.
And before, you would have to ideally
find some kind of a sane starter
project on the Internet,
borrow from that if you're lucky,
and then try to customize it
to make it fit your needs.
Whereas with the Angular CLI,
you were able to just install it.
ng new, define your app,
step into it and serve it.
And so the first time I did this and
it actually worked,
this was me again but these were
tears of joy and not tears of sorrow.
So the fact that I can create a working
Angular application in three or
four lines of code and
serve it up is phenomenal.
And we'll kind of walk through
some of this in a moment.
And I will invite you to code
along with me as we do this.
But the one thing that I just want
to call out is that it's very
easy to take a tool like a CLI,
and turn it into a crutch.
And it's kind of the equivalent of
somebody who has a player piano
in their house and they turn it on,
and it starts auto playing a song and
they're like, see, I can play the piano.
And being able to execute commands from
a command line does not a web developer,
make.
And so what I recommend is that you
do the hard work initially, and
you do not treat the CLI as a crutch.
But you endeavor to understand
what is happening under the hood
with the Angular compiler.
Why things are the way they are,
and once you understand
that then you can use
the Angular CLI as much as you want.
But it's like somebody who just knows
jQuery and they think of themselves
as a JavaScript developer, or
somebody who's like I build web pages,
and really what they do is
they install WordPress.
And I have nothing against that at all,
but
it's important to understand that this
is just a tool, it's a means to an end.
And so do not, or
when you use the CLI take the time to
understand what's happening
under the hood and
why the code that is being generated
is done the way that it is.
So with that said,
the biggest value proposition
is it's a fully functional
project that just works.
You have a code generator for
all sorts of stuff.
You can generate a production build,
you can do unit test.
Some of the things that comes with this
that I don't use a ton, but you can
actually deploy to get a pages linting,
I do use Sass, which is really nice.
So I think CSS preprocessors are amazing,
lazy routes and
fully extensible schematics
which are pretty fantastic.
So installing the CLI,
just npm install, g@angular/cli.
And from here, you can just ng new and
we'll walk through this in just a moment.
And you can generate a project.
Now, this is where it gets fun.
Is using ng generate,
you can generate all sorts of things,
components, services,
enums just a ton of stuff.
You'll notice here that I'm using ng g,
and that's just an alias shorthand for
generate.
With the service, it's almost identical.
You can generate a build.
So that is a kind of
a compact production build.
And if you wanna run unit test, ng test.
And I'm not for sure,
protractor was kind of the tool.
And I know the Angular team is
moving to Cypress, which is amazing.
So if I tried ng e2e I'm not for
sure what would happen.
I think that might be in flux, but
my official verdict on this
is use Cypress regardless.
And you can lint, ng lint.
And with that said,
let's hop into the code or
let's just generate some things and
let's see this working.